---
title: "Ensemble Prediction of Task Affinity for Efficient Multi-Task Learning"
collection: publications
date: 2026-01-26
venue: The International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR)
---
[[PDF]](https://openreview.net/pdf?id=RuVT3PeX1M)

## Abstract
A fundamental problem in multi-task learning (MTL) is identifying groups of tasks that should be learned together. Since training MTL models for all possible combinations of tasks is prohibitively expensive for large task sets, a crucial component of efficient and effective task grouping is predicting whether a group of tasks would benefit from learning together, measured as per-task performance gain over single-task learning. In this paper, we propose ETAP (Ensemble Task Affinity Predictor), a scalable framework that integrates principled and data-driven estimators to predict MTL performance gains. First, we consider the gradient-based updates of shared parameters in an MTL model to measure the affinity between a pair of tasks as the similarity between the parameter updates based on these tasks. This linear estimator, which we call affinity score, naturally extends to estimating affinity within a group of tasks. Second, to refine these estimates, we train predictors that apply non-linear transformations and correct residual errors, capturing complex and non-linear task relationships. We train these predictors on a limited number of task groups for which we obtain ground-truth gain values via multi-task learning for each group. We demonstrate on benchmark datasets that ETAP improves MTL gain prediction and enables more effective task grouping, outperforming state-of-the-art baselines across diverse application domains.

